index.md, before:

---
layout: archive
author_profile: true
title: 
redirect_from: /about/
last_modified_at: "2022-10-30"
date: "2022-10-30"
---

<!-- neural network whisperer / product minded AI / pulse on AI zeitgeist / love for X -->

<!-- name pronounciation [▶️](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c8/Example.ogg) -->

👋 Hi, I'm Akash. I'm currently working on meeting transcription as a Sr. Applied Scientist at Microsoft. I'm part of an R&D team responsible for shipping state-of-art speech recognition models to Azure Cognitive Service APIs (used by [Twitter](https://customers.microsoft.com/en-us/story/1533249396837116946-twitter-media-entertainment-azure)), or to add AI magic to Microsoft products like [Teams + AI-assisted recaps of meetings](https://www.theverge.com/2022/10/12/23400332/microsoft-teams-premium-intelligent-recap-live-translations). In this role I need to be tuned in to fast-evolving research, exercise judgement in connecting user experience with research/technology readiness and keep building & experimenting until I can ship better models for a better user experience.

🐋 In my first year at the [Microsoft global hackathon](https://news.microsoft.com/life/hackathon/) as an ode to the stunning beauty of the Pacific Northwest, I co-founded OrcaHello. OrcaHello is an [open-source](https://github.com/orcasound/aifororcas-livesystem) AI-assisted Southern Resident Killer Whale (SRKW) acoustic monitoring & alert system. Since it went live in September 2020, it's been "listening" 24x7 to [3 hydrophones](https://www.orcasound.net/) deployed in the Puget Sound and has issued expert-validated alerts to authorities like the [Port of Seattle](https://quietsound.org/). 

<!-- I've written about this incredible experience here. -->

I entered the code world ~7yrs ago via an unconventional career arc from a past life as a Chemical Engineer (minored in Control Systems, the math of which I still use!). Connecting the dots so far is a belief in my [ability to learn](https://twitter.com/ValaAfshar/status/1022297136300531713?s=20&t=SXYHzOC-ezEUx2Ea_CJ50Q), [product-minded instincts](https://blog.pragmaticengineer.com/the-product-minded-engineer/) to bridge engineering and end-user worlds and a hunger to make some magic :)

<!-- [timeline of career arc] -->

<!-- [work portfolio part] -->

<!-- Don't hesitate to reach out at [akashmjn] [at] [stanford] [dot] [edu] with any thoughts, collaborations, or opportunites! -->

Commit message:

update orca bio with stats

index.md, after:

---
layout: archive
author_profile: true
title: 
redirect_from: /about/
last_modified_at: "2022-10-30"
date: "2022-10-30"
---

<!-- neural network whisperer / product minded AI / pulse on AI zeitgeist / love for X -->

<!-- name pronounciation [▶️](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c8/Example.ogg) -->

👋 Hi, I'm Akash. I'm currently working on meeting transcription as a Sr. Applied Scientist at Microsoft. I'm part of an R&D team responsible for shipping state-of-art speech recognition models to Azure Cognitive Service APIs (used by [Twitter](https://customers.microsoft.com/en-us/story/1533249396837116946-twitter-media-entertainment-azure)), or to add AI magic to Microsoft products like [Teams + AI-assisted recaps of meetings](https://www.theverge.com/2022/10/12/23400332/microsoft-teams-premium-intelligent-recap-live-translations). In this role I need to be tuned in to fast-evolving research, exercise judgement in connecting user experience with research/technology readiness and keep building & experimenting until I can ship better models for a better user experience.

🐋 In my first year at the [Microsoft global hackathon](https://news.microsoft.com/life/hackathon/) as an ode to the stunning beauty of the Pacific Northwest, I co-founded OrcaHello. OrcaHello is an [open-source](https://github.com/orcasound/aifororcas-livesystem) AI-assisted Southern Resident Killer Whale (SRKW) acoustic monitoring & alert system. Since it went live in September 2020, OrcaHello has enabled 24x7 monitoring of [3 hydrophones in the Puget Sound](https://www.orcasound.net/) with a 400x reduction in moderation time to ~10min/day. So far, it has detected over 60 expert-validated SRKW events and issued alerts to authorities such as the [Port of Seattle](https://quietsound.org/).

<!-- I've written about this incredible experience here. -->

I entered the code world ~7yrs ago via an unconventional career arc from a past life as a Chemical Engineer (minored in Control Systems, the math of which I still use!). Connecting the dots so far is a belief in my [ability to learn](https://twitter.com/ValaAfshar/status/1022297136300531713?s=20&t=SXYHzOC-ezEUx2Ea_CJ50Q), [product-minded instincts](https://blog.pragmaticengineer.com/the-product-minded-engineer/) to bridge engineering and end-user worlds and a hunger to make some magic :)

<!-- [timeline of career arc] -->

<!-- [work portfolio part] -->

<!-- Don't hesitate to reach out at [akashmjn] [at] [stanford] [dot] [edu] with any thoughts, collaborations, or opportunites! -->
